On Monday the 9th, 1, 2, 3, 4.
1, 2, 3, 4, testing on Monday the 9th.
This is the 9th of April.
We are over in the Hagler building, and I have the pleasure and honor of chatting with Harry Green, class of 1948.
52.
I'm sorry, 58, 52, because he and I finished college the same year.
Right.
In order to introduce yourself to anyone who would hear this tape or read the transcription, describe biographically Harry Green, his family background, where'd you grow up, where'd you go to high school, what did mom and dad do for a living?
I was born in San Antonio, 1930, and at the age of one and a half we moved to Houston, out in the East End area of Houston, and where I grew up, where I was reared, I went to J. Pickney Henderson Elementary School, Jackson and Austin, Stephen F. Austin High School in Houston, after which I attended Texas A&M.
What did Mom and Dad do?
My dad was an accountant, and my mother stayed home and took care of us while he had one sister, two years older than I am, and she has since deceased several years ago, and so what else?
Why did you attend Texas A&M?
Did you, why not somewhere else?
Well, for some reason, I did not have any other place in mind to go to school except Texas A&M.
And why I chose it, I've thought back and I really don't know because my daddy didn't go to college nor my mother and no one in our family went to A&M to give me any connection.
I did, however, go to church with a young man named Wimberly who came to church on occasion in his boots.
And maybe that had something to do with it, I'm not sure.
His Aggie boots?
Yeah, his Aggie boots, senior boots.
And that may have had something to do with it, but I can't say even that for sure.
But I just never wanted to go any place but here for some reason.
Who encouraged you to go to college at all?
Well, my family did, of course, my father and the family, and then the peers in school, most of us were going someplace, and we had a group coming up here, which was good to know the people.
Had some of the football players, athletes.
I was running track at the time, so I came up here to run track.
I was not on scholarship, but Colonel Anderson, the track coach, allowed me to
move into the athletic dorm my first year and try to work for a scholarship.
Did you come to visit before coming up to enroll?
No, didn't come to visit before.
I'd sent the papers in and was accepted and came up and my daddy brought me and a friend, Dwight Edward King, who lived two houses down
brought us both up here and dropped us off at the, he was going to play football and dropped us off at Kyle Field and we met Dawg Dawson who took us over to the athletic dorm which was Hart Hall at the time and got us checked in and then we started our college career at that point.
As far as you can recall, what did you bring in the way of paraphernalia and gear?
How much and how little?
I really didn't bring too much.
Brought a suitcase, you know, and stuff like that, some clothes.
But we knew that we were going to be issued the stuff, so we didn't bring too much.
Who was the?
Who greeted you?
Who received you?
Doug Dawson, who was assistant coach at the time, greeted us and took us in and introduced us to some of the other coaches.
I don't remember who they were at this time.
I just remember him because my daddy shook his hand and he introduced himself to my dad and dad shook his hand.
His hand, Dog Dawson's hand, was about twice the size of my dad's, who Dog Dawson was about 6'6", 6'7", had played, I believe, tackle here back in the early days and impressed my father completely about his size, so.
something in the mail that told you you had been admitted?
Yes.
We got stuff from the admissions office that we'd been admitted and that we were to move into Hart Hall, which was the athletic dorm.
Describe your first impressions of A&M of that first day or two.
What was it like?
Well, the first day or two was very bleak and
That's the first time I'd been away from home, so it was really, you know, sort of away from home.
And so it was an eye-opener, so to speak, with the sophomores running around explaining things to us that I didn't understand.
So, but it was good.
The people I met were really good people, and it turned out to be greater people, you know, after you.
Now, had you seen Aggies before at a Rice football game?
Yes, I'd been to Rice football.
I had been to a football game or two at Rice and watched them play, and they impressed me, you know, the band and so forth.
But I'd never been up here to a game.
I'd never been up here at all until I came up that day to enter school.
When your dad was getting ready to leave, did he give you any instructions or guidance or?
No, I don't think so.
It's just the usual good lucker.
How much money did you have in your pocket?
Do you remember?
Probably two or three dollars.
Do you remember what that first year cost?
The first year, I believe, was 70, I think it was $75 a semester.
And that included room and board, 18 hours of classes,
clothes, uniforms, laundry, everything but books.
We had to buy our books, which were not too expensive, I don't recall.
Did your brother and dad pay for that?
Yes, they were able to afford that.
My mother would send me about a dollar a week, and that got me through any paper I needed and through the coffee that we drank between classes and so forth.
But at that time, we really didn't need all that much.
No one in the outfit had a car, so we didn't go very many places.
We walked to the north gate or wherever and walked to church and walked everywhere we went.
Everything was close at hand.
And so we really didn't need that much money, you know.
Describe the campus as you gradually got acquainted with it physically.
What was where?
Well, the campus in Hart Hall, Hart Hall is pretty well the most central dorm on the campus.
So it was very easy for us to get around to the, to the, to class because the,
Physics building, chemistry building, my right at hand, academic building where all the English, history, math was taught.
Old Pfeiffer Hall was there where we had math and what else?
Oh, the ME shops were there where we had our shop classes.
So it was all very handy.
what was it, Ross Hall, where the Commandant's Office was, was right next door to the dorm on Military Walk.
So we were close to, and right across the street from the drill field, which is now, so.
What did you, how did you get courses selected?
Was that done by mail?
No, the courses, we stood in line.
We had a lot of cards to fill out.
and we stood in line.
They had a table set up in Sebesa Hall, and you'd go stand in line on certain alphabetical order.
You'd fill cards out.
I think there were about 12 cards on this one sheet we had to fill out for different reasons in different places, and so we'd run to English class that we'd try to fill out a schedule, and then we'd go to this English class, so to speak, and say, I need English.
At this time and hour, it's full, so then we'd have to run back and redo and then go to the next one and try to fill them in.
The good thing about that, we probably met most of our friends that have remained our friends standing in those lines because they've been real good people and... You know, I like...
Yeah.
Who advised you as far as you remember that first semester?
Who told you what courses to take?
Did you have a major already in mind?
Yes, I had a major in mind and then we just kind of looked in the book.
I don't know that they, they were just different.
I think they gave us a schedule in the athletic department, you know, just to,
kind of a mammograph sheet that told us the freshman courses.
And so each one of us, if we were going into the engineering or going into business, I think they had the different things down as what, I don't ever remember going by the engineering office and talking to a counselor and all of that business.
I think we just, they were pretty standard.
It was English history, you know.
As far as you remember, was it the fact that you were from Hart Hall and an athlete,
Was that an advantage or a disadvantage that day in registration?
It wasn't any advantage at all.
We just went down and got what we could.
Like everybody else?
Like everybody else.
No.
I think the football players got a little advantage to go in because they had to have the afternoons, but I was running track and the track people in the
The rest of the athletes I don't think had any advantage because we just worked out when we got time, when we finished class and went out and worked out until we marched to dinner.
All right, so you get those classes all done.
Let's go back to Hart Hall.
What was it like those first few weeks being a fish?
The first few weeks being a fish, I met my fish buddies, which were great people, and got acquainted with them.
And they were all much faster than I was, I found out later.
But anyway, then to meet the sophomores who were pretty, they were not really as bad on us.
We knew there were sophomores around any time we stepped out of the building somewhere.
And the one thing I remember, the first sophomore I met was in his room by the name of Fuston McCarty from Muleshoe, Texas.
Fuston?
Fuston, F. F-U-S-T-O-N.
Fuston McCarty from Muleshoe, Texas.
And he said, I whipped out and met him as I'm supposed to.
I did learn that.
And he said, I'm from Muleshoe, Texas.
He said, you know where Muleshoe is, Fish Green?
I said, no, sir.
He said, well, you find out before you see me again.
So I had to go find out.
I'd never been out of Harris County.
You know, back in the 30s and 40s, we didn't travel too far from home.
So I had to go find out where Muleshoe was before I ran into him again.
He's really a great guy.
Of course, I've kept that friendship, or we have, for all these years.
But it was kind of funny.
All of the sophomores and all the other student officers were athletes?
Yes.
Everybody in Hart Hall was.
The military, we were...
In military outfits in Hart Hall, A, athletics was all the football team, and they had their top sergeants, corporals, top sergeants, lieutenants, captains, and all the other sports, the minor sports they would call them in those days, I think they're non-revenue sports today, was B, athletics.
And we had a CO and lieutenants and platoons, and then we had a, we were a battalion.
We had a battalion commander, and then it skated down to the companies and so forth.
But right there, our battalion commander was in A Athletics, I think.
Did you have the same kind of freshman duties that?
fish did in the other company?
No, I don't think so.
You didn't have to go clean up some sophomore's room?
No, no, we didn't have to do that.
We were pretty fortunate in that line that we didn't really get caught in as bad in.
We didn't have to clean up any rooms or anything.
What kind of things happened in the hallways those first few weeks?
Well, we just got chewed out on a lot, you know, as sophomores will do, but it wasn't,
wasn't a real bad thing because we were out at the track getting acquainted with the people.
But I do remember the seniors that year, a guy named Bilderback and one named Holbrook and one named Art Hornden, who was on the Olympic mile relay team, backed all the freshmen into the wall at Cobb Field.
and dressed us down more so than any sophomore could have dressed us down.
They were all veterans, of course, because not a one of us took time to meet those guys.
When we got on the, when we came to the campus and went out to start working out, we didn't stop and meet them.
Bad news, bad news not meeting the seniors.
But we did do that after that.
We met everybody we could find.
Was the broom or paddle used in the Hart Hall?
It wasn't used in our track area.
I think it was used up in the football area, but not where we were.
Describe going to class the first days.
What was the routine?
What was a typical day like?
What time and where?
Well, all the classes started at 8 o'clock, so we got up early and dressed and marched from Hart Hall to Sebiza Dining Hall for breakfast.
And, of course, it was family style and we sat with our outfits and
Then it was kind of the humorous thing about marching the chow was being athletes we all marched route step until we hit Ross Hall where the commandant was who happened to be Colonel Boatner which I'm sure some people have told you about that young man and his office faced military walk so he was there every morning watching us so we
our company commander would give us left, right, past Ross Hall, and then we'd go back to route step until we got to the
It was kind of a lax operation.
But anyway, we were all military in the athletics, and we all went to military science, which was a freshman basic course, and all wore uniforms, A and B athletics all the time, just like they do now.
And in the dining hall, did you all have the same routine about the passing of food and all?
Same routine.
It wasn't as bad as it was in the Corps.
After my freshman year, I went over to the Corps because I knew I wasn't going to make it on the track team.
And the sophomores called it bad over there because the freshmen were still at the annex.
So it was a bad deal.
But they did do the cush questions and all that stuff over there.
Your freshman year here, had the annex
My freshman class was at the annex.
All right, so you were among the few, there weren't many freshmen on the campus?
No, just the Hart Hall freshmen.
Oh.
That's all.
I hadn't thought of that.
Yeah.
So there weren't many freshman classes?
No.
Oh, I hadn't thought.
No, but there were a lot of people taking them over.
They had enough to fill a class, you know.
You got up, you marched to child.
And came back and.
Had classes pretty well all morning.
All day.
Okay.
Describe as far as you can.
We came back and cleaned our room up.
I mean, we did do that, make the beds and got it ready for inspection, so to speak, because we were military, maybe half military, but anyway, we were military.
Then we went to class.
We didn't have to march to class, but we did wear uniforms and went to class from 8 to 12.
The whistle blew at 12 and everybody quit.
Everybody went home.
The professors, administration, school lockdown.
One o'clock, the whistle blew.
Everything opened.
Everybody was back.
But then we marched to lunch and then we marched to dinner when we got through practice.
And we'd go to class one or two or three or four hours in the afternoon, according to whether we had lab or not.
And then we'd go work out and then come back and clean up and change clothes and go to march to breakfast and then come back, I mean to dinner, and then come back and study and whatever.
Now, in the afternoons, did you start working out for track early?
We started out in September, yeah.
The quarter-milers and above, which I was, worked on a cross-country course from September to January.
Then everybody in January went into their particular field, whether it was sprinting hurdles or quarter-mile or half.
Describe that routine as well as you can because I haven't had anybody yet.
What routine?
That kind of workout for fall.
Oh well Ray Putnam was our distance coach and Colonel Andy was the hurdler and sprint coach and who was the head coach Colonel Andy and so we'd go over and get with Putnam and dress in the locker room and at Caulfield we had a dressing room which is now the
Visitor's dressing room, so to speak.
It was over on the east side of the field, underneath the stadium.
That time of year, only for track.
Only for track, right.
And so then we'd take out on a cross-country course, which went, it was three and a half miles, I think.
And you can't visualize it today, but we went out across, it started across the tracks
probably about where the rec center is today and it went on a dirt road which might be old Kyle or George Bush Road today somewhere.
I don't think it went all the way through there.
I'm not sure.
I don't think it did though.
And then it went around past what is today the Bush Library and then back down university or back by the vet school because the vet school wasn't out there.
So it was all back in that area.
And so it was three and a half miles.
So we just ran that every day.
How many times?
Well, I only ran it once.
I couldn't make it around, but once J.D.
Hampton, the number one two-miler in the nation, he passed me about the three-quarter mark, which was the alfalfa hay barns.
And we had a quarter-miler named Mitchell from Deer Park, Don Mitchell, I believe it was, that he used to get rides on bicycles and on the tailgate of pickup trucks.
until he beat Hampton back one day.
He forgot where JD was in the race or just in the workouts and he crossed the line before Hampton did and Mr. Putnam finally discovered what he was doing.
They usually wait on the corner until Hampton passed him and then he'd come in behind him sometime.
So it wasn't good to beat JD around the track and the last guy through had to close the gates.
Now, about how many would have been in this group?
There's probably 15 or 20 of us that would be in that group.
Now, was that the entire afternoon's workout?
Oh, yeah.
What else did you do?
Well, just exercise, you know, but that was about to work out.
And about what time did this occur?
Well, we'd get out there about from 3.30 on and do that and then get through sometime around 5 or so.
I think we ate at 6 is what I think.
Anyway, sometime whenever we were all back.
If we didn't get back, then we'd just casually walk down to Subison and go on in and eat.
And your group of guys didn't have intramurals?
like most of the rest of the Corps did?
I'm not sure they may have.
I didn't participate in any of them, but I don't think we did.
There wasn't too many intramurals in those days.
Not like today, anyway.
Describe as well as you can those first few weeks of going to class.
What was it like?
Who were some of the...
teachers you remember and some of the courses you remember?
Well the first two or three days going to class was very interesting because as you remember when we went the classes were only about 25 to 30 in a class and once again you had to meet everybody in the class before you sat down and then meet them until you call them by name at the next class so
which was a great thing.
It taught us a lot on courtesy and the ability to meet people no matter where we were or what we were doing, and particularly started with the upper class.
However, in the freshman courses, there weren't too many upper classmen, but anyway, there were some sophomores in there maybe.
And the professors were good professors.
They were like a bunch of them.
A lot of them were A&M graduates who just graduated and stayed in on to teach.
I had a trigonometry professor that, at the time, was one of the seven people in the world that understood Einstein's theory of relativity.
Name was Kent.
Called him Kubrick Kent.
As a matter of fact, he just died.
He may not be dead yet, as a matter of fact.
Oh, yeah, he's been alive.
I saw him just two years ago at the Shrine of Fish Fry.
He may have died since then.
I'm not sure, but if he has, it's the last two years.
Describe him as well as you can remember.
Oh, he was a tall, thin, gangly-type professor.
He'd write the problem on the board with his right hand and with an eraser on the left and expect us to get it, you know, because he was so sharp at it and he thought everybody else was.
So he'd just go along like that.
If you didn't get it, well.
But anyway, he was a... Where did that nickname come from?
I have no idea.
That's what they called him when I got to class, cube root Kent.
Now, I've heard some people say that supposedly the cube root of the number of students taking the class would pass it.
That's probably right.
Was it a tough course?
I don't, it wasn't really tough if you studied.
typical trigonometry class.
It wasn't that tough, but you had a tendency sometimes not to study too hard, so it was tough.
He was tough, because if you didn't get your homework in, you didn't pass.
You know, he gave you assignments to do each day.
And you turn them in the next day, whether he graded them, I don't know, he never gave them back.
But if you didn't turn them in, you didn't pass.
You know, he was a, he just wanted you to do the work primarily.
Was his grading system, as far as you know, the calls, did it seem fair?
Oh, yeah.
They all graded on a curve then, for one thing.
But the fairness of A&M at that time, if you were in each individual class, like an English class or a trigonometry class, if you were in the upper 25 percent,
in grades at the end of the year you didn't have to take a final.
So that meant that four or five students out of each class didn't have to take the final.
So there were some students went through here and never took a final because graduating seniors didn't have to take final.
So you could feasibly go through here without taking one final if you just kept up during the semester.
And so it was, and like I say, they graded on the curve.
So it was all fair.
And in that course from Professor Kent, had your high school reasonably prepared you for that?
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, it had.
What about some of the other courses, English, history?
They had pretty well all prepared us.
And the problem with English 103 was it was all composition, rhetoric they called it, I think.
and you can either write or you can't, so either pass or fail, you know.
They didn't really teach you how to write, so you either passed or failed.
You could sit down and write a composition on your hip pocket.
Sometimes it'd be a paragraph, sometimes it'd be three pages, according to what the guy was thinking about when he assigned you the deal, you know, or you couldn't, you know, so you'd make grades in between, whatever the case may be.
Do you remember your English teacher in freshman year?
That freshman year was, gosh, he just, Limpy Keel.
Who?
Mr. Keel, K-E-E-L.
Called him Limpy.
He walked with a limp.
Dr. Keel, I think it was.
Called him Limpy Keel.
Wasn't too good because he did have a bad limp.
I don't know if you remember him or not.
But anyway, he was, he was around here just for a few years ago also.
So they've been around.
And then other courses you had?
Science?
History?
Had all those.
Had a guy named Williams as a history professor.
Dr. Williams, I believe he was.
He was a car nut.
Had an old Chevrolet.
Said he never had any work done on his Chevrolet because no two moving parts touched.
So it never wore out.
I think his name was William.
And what was your major freshman year?
Freshman year was mechanical engineering, and then I changed over to industrial technology.
And why did you change?
Because my chemistry and physics grades were low.
Did you have those as freshmen?
Yes.
Who talked about them?
I don't remember who they were.
The one chemistry professor I had said you could bring anything to class, you get on a three by five card.
So I walked in with a three-foot by five-foot card.
I didn't have anything on it.
I just walked into class with it.
He was a pretty jovial type guy.
He was a guy with kind of a bad hand.
I don't know if you remember him or not.
Anyway, I don't remember his name, but they were good.
It wasn't anything, you know, you couldn't pass if you didn't study.
They were all.
Did you and your buddies go to class right now?
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
How did you behave in class?
What were the unwritten rules about classroom conduct?
We were pretty well behaved in class.
Stay awake?
For the best part except Mr. Keough's 1 o'clock English class.
Had a little problem staying awake in there.
But most of the time, then I had another day that we had.